# Correlation, Ranking & Mode

## Correlation

**Correlation** measures how a variable behaves with respect to another variable and vice-versa.

The two variables are said to be **correlated** if they move together in the same or, opposite direction.

If the two variables move together in the same direction then, they are **directly/positively correlated** and if they move together in the opposite direction then, they are said to be **inversely/negatively correlated**.

### Correlation Coefficient

The **correlation coefficient** measures the degree of correlation between the two variables.

Its value is always between `-1` to `1`; 
where 
- `1` indicates a complete positive correlation between the variables.
- `0` indicates a zero correlation between the variables.
- `-1` indicates a complete negative correlation between the variables.

We can measure the **correlation coefficient** between two measures in SQL by using the `CORR()` function as follows :

***Example-1 :***
Finding the correlation coefficient between the "*revenue*" and "*units_sold*" column :

```sql
SELECT
	CORR(units_sold, revenue)
FROM
	store_sales;
```
As "*units_sold*" is directly proportioanl to "*revenue*" (used in the calculation) thus, we can find a very high positive correlation between these two.

***Example-2 :***
Finding the correlation coefficient between the "*employee_shifts*" and "*units_sold*" column :

```sql
SELECT
	CORR(units_sold, employee_shifts)
FROM
	store_sales;
```
***Example-3 :***
Finding the correlation coefficient between the "*month_of_year*" and "*units_sold*" column :

```sql
SELECT
	CORR(units_sold, month_of_year)
FROM
	store_sales;
```

Nearly, zero correlation can be seen between "*month_of_year*" and "*units_sold*" and practically, this is expected as well, because, most of the sales happen during the month of December and thus we can say, seasonality play a major role here.

## Ranking

The `ROW_NUMBER()` function can be used in SQL for ranking the results. 
It is an window functions,i.e., it works on an ordered set.

***Syntax :***
```sql
ROW_NUMBER() OVER (ORDER BY column_name)
```
By following the above syntactic rule, we can provide ranking (descending order) to the `column_name`.

***Example-1 :***
Ranking the 'units_sold' column :

```sql
SELECT
	sale_date,
	month_of_year,
	units_sold,
	ROW_NUMBER() OVER (ORDER BY units_sold)
FROM
	store_sales;
```

If we want to sort the output table by ascending order of month without affecting the above ranking then, we can do so, just by adding a simple `ORDER BY` clause at the end, as follows :

```sql
SELECT
	sale_date,
	month_of_year,
	units_sold,
	ROW_NUMBER() OVER (ORDER BY units_sold)
FROM
	store_sales
ORDER BY
    month_of_year;
```

## Mode

The **Mode** tells us about how frequent a value occurs in a given group of rows.

In SQL, `MODE()` function is used to find the mode.

***Syntax :***
```sql
MODE() WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY employee_shifts)
```

***Example-1 :***

Finding the mode of "*employee_shifts*" by "*month_of_year*"

```sql
SELECT
	month_of_year,
	MODE() WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY employee_shifts)
FROM
	store_sales
GROUP BY
	month_of_year;
```








