# Percentile & Frequencies

**Percentiles** are one hundred equal groups in the data with the population of values divided across the groups.

It helps us in understanding the data more clearly, by grouping the data in the equal sized buckets.

There are two types of percentiles :

1. Discrete Percentiles
2. Continuous Percentiles

## Discrete & Continuous Percentiles

The **discrete percentile** returns the first value existed in the data that exceeds the given percentile.

Whereas, the **continuous percentile** defines the percentiles based on the dataset.

So, it interpolates and sets the boundary value between the percentiles in the data.

In summary, the discrete percentile is the value that we can find in the dataset but, the continuous percentile gets computed.

We are much likely to see a small difference in the values of discrete and continuous percentiles.

**_Example-1 :_**
The following SQL query shows the values obtained from discrete and continuous percentiles on the '_revenue_' column:

```sql
SELECT
	PERCENTILE_CONT(0.95) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue) AS revenue_95th_pct_cont,
	PERCENTILE_DISC(0.95) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue) AS revenue_95th_pct_disc
FROM
	store_sales;
```

### Discrete Percentile

The discrete percentile is an aggregate function, so we need to provide the `ORDER BY` information.

So, to find out the 0th (Minimum), 25th(1st Quartile) ,50th (Median),75th (3rd Quartile) & 100th (Maximum) percentile of the "_revenue_":

```sql
SELECT
	PERCENTILE_DISC(0.00) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue) AS minimum,
	PERCENTILE_DISC(0.25) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue) AS first_quartile,
	PERCENTILE_DISC(0.50) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue) AS median,
	PERCENTILE_DISC(0.75) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue) AS third_quartile,
	PERCENTILE_DISC(1.00) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue) AS maximum
FROM
	store_sales;
```

### Continuous Percentile

The continuous percentile is also an aggregate function, so we need to provide the `ORDER BY` information.

So, to find out the 35th, 55th, 85th and 99th continuous percentile of the "_revenue_":

```sql
SELECT
	PERCENTILE_CONT(0.35) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue),
	PERCENTILE_CONT(0.55) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue),
	PERCENTILE_CONT(0.85) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue),
	PERCENTILE_CONT(0.99) WITHIN GROUP (ORDER BY revenue)
FROM
	store_sales;
```
